-Proc.Nat.Acad.Sci.USA
Vol.70,No.8,pp.2281-2285, August1973
Carcinogens areMutagens: ASimpleTestSystemCombining Liver
Homogenates forActivation andBacteria forDetection
(frameshift mutagens/aflatoxin/benzo(a)pyrene/acetylaminofluorene)
BRUCE N.AMES,WILLIAM E.DURSTON, EDITH YAMASAKI, ANDFRANK D.LEE
Biochemistry Department, University ofCalifornia, Berkeley, Calif.94720
Contributed byBruceN.Ames,May14,1973
ABSTRACT 18Carcinogens, including aflatoxin Bi,
benzo(a)pyrene, acetylaminofluorene, benzidine, anddi-
methylamino-trans-stilbene, areshowntobeactivated by
liverhomogenates toformpotentframeshift mutagens.
Webelieve thatthesecarcinogens haveincommon aring
system sufficiently planarforastacking interaction with
DNAbasepairsandapartofthemolecule capable ofbeing
metabolized toareactive group: thesestructural features
arediscussed intermsofthetheoryofframeshift muta-
genesis. Wepropose thatthesecarcinogens, andmany
othersthataremutagens, causecancerbysomatic muta-
tion.Asimple, inexpensive, andextremely sensitive testfor
detection ofcarcinogens asmutagens isdescribed. Itcon-
sistsoftheuseofaratorhuman liverhomogenate for
carcinogen activation (thussupplying mammalian metab-
olism)andasetofSalmonella histidine mutants formuta-
gendetection. Thehomogenate, bacteria, andaTPNH-
generating system areallincubated together onapetri
plate.Withthemostactivecompounds, aslittleasafew
nanograms canbedetected.
Wehavepreviously described theuseofasetofmutants of
Salmonella typhimurium fordetecting andclassifying chemical
mutagens withgreatsimplicity andsensitivity (1,2).With
thistestwehavealsoshownthattheactiveformsofalarge
numberofknowncarcinogens aremutagens (1-5).Theactive
formsofcarcinogens suchasaflatoxin, polycyclic hydrocar-
bons,dimethylnitrosamine, andvarious aromatic amines
areformedbymammalian metabolism, inparticular bythe
TPNH-dependent microsomal enzymes ofliver(6-11).The
principal limitation ofanybacterial systemfordetecting
carcinogens asmutagens isthatbacteria donotduplicate
mammalian metabolism inactivating carcinogens. Mam-
malian-liver homogenates havebeenusedbyGarneretal.,
(6)toactivateaflatoxin B1toacompound lethaltoourbac-
terialtesterstrainlackingexcision repair,byMalling (12)
toactivatedimethylnitrosamine toacompound thatreverts
oneofourbacterial testerstrains,andbySlateretal.(13)
toactivate dimethylnitrosamine toacompound lethalfor
bacterialackingpolymerase I.Inthisstudywehaveextended
thisworkandshownthatcarcinogens canbedetected asmu-
tagenssimplyandwithgreatsensitivity byincubation ofthe
carcinogen, aratorhumanliverhomogenate, andourbac-
terialtesterstraintogether onapetriplate.
MATERIALS ANDMETHODS
Compounds. Glucose-6-phosphate, TPN,TPNH, and2-
naphthylamine wereobtained fromSigma.Benzo(a)pyrene,
2-acetylaminofluorene, andbenzidine werefromAldrich. Di-
Abbreviation: Me2SO,dimethylsulfoxide.methylsulfoxide (Me2SO), spectrophotometric grade,wasob-
tainedfromSchwarz/Mann, sodiumphenobarbital from
Mallinckrodt, aflatoxinB1fromCalbiochem, and3-methyl-
cholanthrene fromEastman; 7,12-dimethylbenz(a)anthracene
wasagiftofP.L.Grover.Schuchardt (Munich) wasthe
sourcefortheothercarcinogens.
Bacterial Strainsusedaremutants ofS.typhimurium LT-2
andhavebeendiscussed indetail(2).
SourceofLiver.Malerats(Sprague-Dawley/Bio-1 strain,
HortonAnimalLaboratories) weremaintained onPurina
laboratory chow.Aweekbeforetheywerekilled,their
drinking waterwasmade0.1%insodiumphenobarbital (14).
Therats(250-500 g)werekilledbyablowtotheheadand
cervicaldislocation; theliverwasremoved andplacedina
sterile,ice-coldbeaker.Aportionofhumanliverwasobtained
fromanautopsy ofa77-year-old manwhohaddied7hr
earlierofheartfailure.
Preparation ofLiverHomogenate Fraction "S-9".Wehave
usedtheprocedure ofGarneretal.(6).Allstepswereper-
formedat0-4owithcoldandsterilesolutions andglassware.
Theliver(ratliverswere10-25geach)waswashedinan
equalvolumeof0.15MKCl,mincedwithsterilescissors
inthreevolumes of0.15MKCl(3ml/gofwetliver),and
homogenized withaPotter-Elvehjem apparatus witha
Teflonpestle.Thehomogenate wascentrifuged (Sorvall
RC2-B)for10minat9000Xg,andthesupernatant, whichwe
calltheS-9fraction, wasdecanted andsaved.1mlofS-9
fractioncontained microsomes from250mgofwetliver;the
proteinconcentrations werefairlyconstant frompreparation
topreparation exceptforthehumanS-9fractionwhichwas
abouthalf,perhapsduetodifficulties inhomogenization be-
causeofitsfibrousnature.ThefreshS-9fractions (ratand
human) weredistributed in2-mlportions insmallplastic
tubes(2-mlliquidnitrogen storagetubes/4-Shore-USA, La
Jolla,Calif.),quicklyfrozenindryice,andstoredat-80°in
aRevcofreezer.Asrequired, sufficient S-9fraction was
thawed(atroomtemperature) andkeptinice;theunused
portionwasdiscarded attheendoftheday.
Mutagenesis TestwviththeS-9Fraction. Themethodwithout
theliveractivation systemhasbeendescribed indetail(2).
Theonlymodification istheaddition ofS-9Mixtothetop
agar.TheS-9Mixcontains perml:0.3mlofS-9fraction, 8
mMMgCl2,33mMKCl,5mMglucose-6-phosphate, 4mM
TPN,and100mMsodiumphosphate (pH7.4).To2mlof
22812282 Genetics: Amesetal. Proc.Nat.Acad.Sci.USA70(1973)
Carcinogen
NH2 2-minoant
NH2 2-ainoflu4
roLYITNHCOCs 2-acetylm
fluorene
H2NH~~~N"2 benzidine
&.&NH2 4-aminobip
~ r 4-amino-tr
C-C.. stilbene
T ~4-dimethyl @Ad ~~~~trans-St
,0NH2 p-(phenyls
(.,NmN aniline
 4-(o-tolyl
@[NsN CH3 toluidir
XaXN(CH3) N,N-dimet}ftNdN p-(r-toIaniline
"H2 2-naphthyl
JH2
ro[Ino l-aminopyx
NH2
6-aminochi
benzo(a)p
3 3-methyl-
cholantl
7.12-dime benz(a).
,11"In, aflatoxin
OCH
Q1 steriguab
OCH3 118S-9
thracene 20
20 -
0+
orene 10
10 -
0+
mino- 50
so
0+
50
50 -
O+
phenyl 100
100 _
0+
rone- 10+
10
0
lamino- 10
tilbene 10
0+
azo)- 100 +
100 -
0O
,lazo)-o- 10 +
,no 10
0+
Ayl- 100 +
lylazo)- 100
I 0+
lamine 100 +
100
0+
rrene 10+
10 -
0.+TABLE1.Activation ofcarcinogens tomutagens
rnj~zai~ aewrwi perpza Hisi~fne Revertnte perpowt
TA1S35 TA1536 TA1537 TA1S38
318 11 180 11200
 T 27
16 3 12 46
77 2 121 11300
21 0 iT 39
77 0 12 29
117 2 92 13600
86 0 11 21
118 3 12 46
34 1 29 265
38 0 10
38 0 22 36
143 4 108 980
92 2 a
119 3 12 46
23 842
7 17
10 42
57 3 25 896
68 0 6 28
97 1 12 S3
31 3 8 94
15 0 12 13
45 2 18 31
71 1 20 305
94 1 8 T7
97 1 12 29
330
16
41
66
422 34
0 8
2 18
1 136
0 23
1 9
rysene 1+ 18 6 127
1 -30 0 3
0+14 2 18
)yrene 5 +' 46 4 148
 - 77 1 16
0+48 1 28
50+ 22 S 88
threne so -13 0 2
0+ 11 0 9
ethyl- 50+25 1 225
)anthracene 50 -35 0 is
0+29 1 11
BI 1+t35 0 36
1 - 23 3 5
0+ 42 0 6
totystin* 0.1.t 13 3 32
0.1 -30 1 18
0+ 5 0 13147
31
81
21
398
59
29
638
30
46
505
44
110
21
27
88
20
36
266
26
26
121
8
32
Revertant colonies(his+)oneachplatewerescoredafter2days.
Numbers underlined arejudgedtobesignificantly different from
thecontrols. Rat-liver homogenate (8-9Mix) wasaddedtothe
plates,whereindicated. Human S-9fraction gavequalitatively
similarresultswhen2-aminoanthracene, thefluorene derivatives,
4-aminobiphenyl, 6-aminochrysene, andaflatoxin B1wereassayed
withTA1538. Theamount chosenforeachcarcinogen wastheone
thatgavemaximum mutagenesis ofseveral amounts tried(see
Fig.1).Allofthecompounds wereaddedfromsolutions inMe2SO
usually 1mg/ml; thecontrol,lackingcompound, hadanequiva-
lentaddition ofMe2SO.
*The8-9preparation wasfroma200-gratthatwasinjected
intraperitoneally, 24hrbeforeitwaskilled,with16mgof3-meth-
ylcholanthrene dissolved incornoil.
tOne-third thenormalamountof8-9fraction wasusedinthe
9-9Mix.
tWeareindebted toDennisHsiehforasampleandforsuggest-
ingweteststerigmatocystin.moltentopagarat450areadded0.1mlofthebacterial tester
strainculture(2to3X109/ml), upto0.1mlofasolution
(Me2SO orwater)ofthecompound tobetested,and0.5ml
of8-9Mix;thenthetubeisrotatedquicklyandthecontents
arepoured ontheagarplate.Theadditions andpouringshould
takelessthanaminute. Thecolonies ontheplates(his+
revertants) arecountedaftera2-dayincubation at37°.
RESULTS
Combined SystemforCarcinogen Activation andBacterial
Mutagenesi8. WeusetheTPNH-dependent microsomal-en-
zymesystems inliverhomogenate toactivate carcinogens.
Theactivated carcinogens aredetected asmutagens. The
testassays, onapetriplate,thenumber ofrevertant colonies
inducedbymutagens inthesetofhistidine-requiring mutants.
Twotechnical improvements greatlysimplify theuseofthe
combined bacterial andliversystem.TheTPNH-generating
systemandliverhomogenate traction (S-9Mix) canbein-
cubateddirectly onthepetriplatealongwiththecompound
tobetestedandthebacterial testerstrain.Bothratand
humanliverpreparations canbefrozenformanymonths
withoutlossofactivity.
Carcinogens Detected asMutagens. Table1showsthatrat-
liverhomogenates canactivate 18different aromatic type
carcinogens tomutagens. Thecompounds werechosenfor
testingbecause theywereknowntobecarcinogenic inhu-
mansorinanimals(7,15).Controlvalues arepresented both
forthenumberofrevertant colonies onplateswithcompound
andnoS-9Mix,andforthenumber ofcolonies onplates
A B
~15 -N
*10
 /~~~~~~~~~~~
C0 100 200 0 20 40
LiverHomogenate PerAssay(pilofS-9) AdgofCompound
Fig.1.Effectof8-9fraction andcarcinogen concentration on
mutagenesis ofTA1538. (A)Theprocedure wasasdescribed in
Methods exceptthattheamount ofS-9fraction intheMixwasvar-
ied.Asthehuman 8-9hadhalftheprotein oftheratS-9,there-
sultswiththehuman material areplotted athalfthe8-9amount
actually used.4-Aminobiphenyl (100Isgperassay)hadabout0.1
theactivity of2-acetylaminofluorene (50jsgperassay), andthe
resultsplotted should bemultiplied by100rather than1000.
Controls withS-9Mix,butnocompound, andwithcompound,
omitting 8-9Mix,werelessthan25colonies. (B)WithhumanS-9,
0.5mlwasusedperassay,andwithratS-9theusual0.15mlwas
used.
Opensymbols, dottedlines:rat8-9.Closedsymbols, solidlines:
human 8-9.(V,V)4-aminobiphenyl; (O,0)2-acetylamino-
fluorene; (0,0),2-aminoanthracene; (-,A),2-aminofluorene.Proc.Nat.Acad.Sci.USA70(1973)
withS-9Mixandnocarcinogen. Thecontrolvaluesarelowin
allcases,indicating thattheS-9Mixissterileanddoesnot
significantly enhance thespontaneous mutation ratecharac-
teristicforeachtesterstrain,andthatnoneofthecompounds
inthetableismutagenic beforeactivation. Itcanbeseenfrom
Table1thatafteractivation everycompound listedreverts
oneorbothoftheframeshift mutantsTA1537andTA1538.
Itseemslikelythatthereactive groupsproduced fromthe
amino,dimethylamino, andacetylamino groupsofamine
carcinogens arethenitroso,hydroxylamino, andhydroxy-
acetylamino groups,whichareknownactivation products of
livermetabolism (7)andwhichwehaveshownconvert the
originalcompounds intopowerful frameshift mutagens for
TA1538 (2,5).Thepolycyclic hydrocarbons arepresumably
activated bylivertotheepoxides (8),whichreactwithDNA
andarelikelytobethetruecarcinogens (16),andwhichwe
haveshownarepowerful frameshift mutagens forTA1537
andTA1538(4).Aflatoxin B1,whichmayrequireliveractiva-
tionforcarcinogenicity (17)andtherelatedfungalcarcinogen
sterigmatocystin, arehereshowntobe,afteractivation,
frameshift mutagens atverylowconcentrations.
Specificity ofMutagenesis. Eachofourfourdifferent tester
strainsisreverted bydifferent mutagens (1-5).Thethree
frameshift testerstrains,TA1536, TA1537, andTA1538, have
different DNAsequences atthesiteofthehistidine mutation
(2)andarereverted bydifferent frameshift mutagens, each
ofwhichhasapreference foraparticular repetitive sequence
inDNA(2).Thispreference canbeseeninTable1:some
activated aromatic aminecarcinogens revertTA1538, which
hasaCGCGCGCG sequence* atthesiteofthemutation, in
preference toTA1537, astrainwitharepetitive Gsequence,
whileactivated dimethylbenzanthracene ismoreactiveon
TA1537. Noneofthecompounds isveryactiveontheframe-
shiftmutation inTA1536, astrainthatisparticularly sensi-
tivetotheICRframeshift mutagens (2,18,19).Twoofthe
compounds canalsorevertTA1535, anindicator ofbase-pair
substitutions. Thefactthatdifferent mutagens reactatdif-
ferentDNAsequences makesthemeaning ofquantitative
comparisons uncertain.
Carcinogens Inactive inthePlateTest.Wehavetesteda
totalof20carcinogens ofthearomatic type.Eighteen ofthe
carcinogens gaveaclearpositiveresultasframeshift mutagens
afteractivation, andappearinTable1.Twocarcinogens ofthe
20tested,auramine 0andN,N-dimethyl-p-(phenylazo)-
aniline,didnotgiveapositiveresult:bothhaveadimethyl-
aminosidechainthatpresumably requires oxidation for
activation. Thelattercompound isverycloselyrelatedto
severaloftheazobenzene derivatives inTable1thatare
active,andwehaveshownthat4-nitrosoazobenzene acts
directlyasaframeshift mutagen withoutactivation (5).
Variouscarcinogens thataresimplealkylating agentscause
base-pair substitution mutations andrevertthehistidine
mutation hisG46(present inourtesterstrainTA1535) (1,3).
Acarcinogen thatneedsactivation beforebecoming asimple
alkylating agentisdimethylnitrosamine. Dimethylnitros-
aminehasbeenusedtoreverthisG46byLegator (20)after
activation inhishost-mediated assay,andbyMalling (12)
afteractivation inliquidculturewithmouse-liver homogenate
underoxygen.Wehaverepeated Malling's experiment success-
*IsonoandYourno(2)haveshownthatthisistheDNAsequence
atwhich2-nitrosofluorene causesatwo-base deletion.fully(usingourownratS-9Mix),butwereunsuccessful in
preliminary experiments withourstandard plateassaywith
eitherhisG46orTA1535.t Inviewofthehazardsofworking
withitandthefactthatitsmutagenicity afteractivation has
beenamplydemonstrated, wedecidednottoworkwithitfur-
ther.
Variation oftheConcentration ofRatorHumanS-9Fraction.
Therelationship between theamountofratorofhumanliver
S-9fractionaddedandthenumberofrevertant colonies in-
ducedwasinvestigated withthecompounds listedinTable1.
Theresultswith4-aminobiphenyl and2-acetylaminofluorene
areshowninFig.1A.Withmostofthecompounds tested,
humanS-9fraction waslessactivethanratS-9fraction(ona
proteinbasis),buttheratswereinducedwithphenobarbital,
thehumanliverwasnotasfreshastheratliver,andthereis
quiteavariation inactivityinhumanliverfromautopsy(6).
Theplateassayisnotasimpleenzyme assay,andvarious
complicated factorsinfluence theyieldofrevertants, e.g.,
activation andinactivation ofthecarcinogen andlossof
activityoftheS-9fraction ontheplateswithtime.Thereisa
technical limitation toaddingmoreS-9thanshowninFig.1:
thereisatraceofhistidine intheS-9fraction, andanexcess
ofitresultsingrowthofthebackground lawnofbacteria,
whichobscures therevertants.
Variation oftheConcentration ofCarcinogen intheAssay.
Therelationship between theamountofcarcinogen andthe
numberofrevertants induced (withafixedamountofS-9
fraction) isshowninFig.1B.For2-aminoanthracene, which
isactivated particularly wellbyhumanS-9,athighercon-
centrations theyieldofrevertants diminishes markedly. We
thinkthatthereasonforthisisthatamutagen killsbacteria
byinactivating manyessential genesonthechromosome, in
addition toreverting theparticular frameshift mutation in
thetesterstrain.Theoptimum balancebetween maximum
reversion andminimum killingvarieswiththemutagen,
whichisspecificforparticular basesequences, andwiththe
testerstrain.Thiskillinghasalsobeenobserved withmany
othercarcinogens andisoftenvisibleasathinning ofthe
background lawn.Because ofthisandothercomplexities of
thetest,werecommend thatifitisdesiredtomaximize
mutagenesis foranewcompound, anumberofassaysbedone,
varyingbothconcentration ofcarcinogen andamountofS-9.
Theactivated carcinogens arepowerful mutagens and
minuteamounts canbedetected (Fig.1BandTable1).With
2-aminoanthracene andhumanS-9activation, 1ngdoubled
thespontaneous reversion yieldofabout20colonies, and0.5
gggave11,000revertant colonies. Theamountofconversion
totheactivated formishardtodetermine inmostcases,but
with2-aminofluorene itmaybeabout40%:weobtain
about2000revertant coloniesperugof2-aminofluorene, and
wepreviously foundabout5000colonies per,gfor2-nitro-
sofluorene or2-hydroxylaminofluorene (5),whichareknown
metabolic products (7),mutagenic withoutactivation bythe
S-9fraction.
S-9Mix.Thelivermicrosomal enzymes responsible for
activating aromatic amines, polycyclic hydrocarbons, and
aflatoxins allrequireTPNH,anditiscustomary ininvitro
tHisG46issuperior toitsderivatives lackingexcisionrepairasa
testerstrainfortheseandsomeothermethylating agents,while
TA1535(orTA1530orTA1950) isbetterforlargeralkylatingCaxcinogens axeMutagens 2283
agents.Proc.Nat.Acad.Sci.USA70(1973)
systems toaddaTPNH-generating systemsuchasTPN,
glucose-6-phosphate, andglucose-6-phosphate dehydro-
genase,aswellasphosphate buffer,MgCl2,andKCl(6,8,
10-12).Theoptimum concentrations ofthecomponents of
theS-9Mixhavebeendetermined inexperiments similarto
thoseshowninTable1with2-aminofluorene, withbothrat
andhumanS-9fractions. TPNwasfoundtobeabsolutely
essential, andtheoptimum concentration wasdetermined to
beabout4mMforseveralofthecarcinogens: substitution
byTPNHdidnotenhance mutagenesis. Glucose-6-phos-
phatedehydrogenase didnotenhance mutagenesis andwas
omitted. Thephosphate bufferwasnecessary forstabilizing
theS-9activityinthetopagar.
Addition ofglucose-6-phosphate resultedinaslightstimula-
tionwithourhumanliverpreparation, andwehaveleftitin
theS-9Mix.Wehavefoundnoadvantage inusingpurified
microsomes asasubstitute forourS-9preparation.
Addition oftheS-9Mixdirectly tothetopagarwiththe
bacteriaandcarcinogen ismoreconvenient andgivesasgood,
orbetter,activity thanthealternative methodofspreading
theS-9Mixontheagarplatesbeforepouring thetopagar
withthebacteria asanoverlay. Theshort(lessthan1min)
exposure oftheS-9enzymes tothe450topagardoesnot
affecttheiractivity. Theprocedure recommended isalsomore
convenient thanthemethod described previously byother
workers (6,12,21),inwhichthebacteria areincubated in
liquidculturewiththecarcinogen andliverhomogenate
activation systemandthenaliquots areplatedforassayof
mutagenesis.
StabilityoftheS-9Fraction toStorage.TheS-9preparation
doesnotloseanyactivityinactivating 2-acetylaminofluorene
(experiments asinFig.1)afterstorage at-80°overa3-
monthperiod.Wehavedonelesscomplete experiments with
variouscarcinogens inTable1andhavefoundsimilarenzyme
stability. Wehavemadeapreparation ofS-9fromfrozenrat
liver(freshlyfrozen,stored1weekat-80°,thawed over-
nightintherefrigerator) thatshowedexcellent activity when
testedwith2-acetylaminofluorene and4-aminobiphenyl.
Induction ofLiverEnzymes. Manycompounds areknown
thatinduceelevated amounts ofsomeoftheenzymes ofthe
mixedfunction oxygenase systeminliver.Wehavenotin-
vestigated thisindetail,buthaveroutinely usedphenobarbi-
tal,whichiscommonly usedforinduction oftheseenzymes.
Inexperiments comparing control ratswiththosegiven
phenobarbital intheirdrinking water,wefounda2-foldin-
creaseintheabilityoftheS-9fractionfromthephenobarbital-
induced ratstoactivate2-acetylaminofluorene and4-amino-
biphenyl. Whenratswereinduced insteadby3-methyl-
cholanthrene, theS-9fraction wasabout3-times moreactive
intheactivation ofbenzo(a)pyrene (seelegendtoTable1)
andlessactivewithacetylaminofluorene thanfromeither
phenobarbital-fed orcontrolrats.
DISCUSSION
Wehaveshownthatafteractivation bymammalian liver
homogenate, 18knownchemical carcinogens ofthearomatic
typeareframeshift mutagens. We(1-5)andothers(reviewed
inref.7)haveshownthatvariousothercarcinogens are
mutagens; somecausingbase-pair substitutions andothers
frameshift mutations. Weproposethatthosecarcinogens thatpothesis, whichofcourseisnotnew,seemscompelling inview
ofthiscorrespondence between carcinogens andmutagens
andtheprecedent thatcellregulation canbeeasilyalteredby
mutation, asdemonstrated routinely bybacterial andphage
molecular biologists. Aheritable changeincellregulation is
oneofthemostcharacteristic properties ofcancercells.
Manyofthemostpowerful carcinogens causemutations of
aspecialtype:frameshift mutations. Knowledge ofthe
mechanism offrameshift mutation makesthestructural re-
quirements forthistypeofcarcinogen understandable and,
thus,predictable. Themodelofframeshift mutagenesis as
firstworked outbyStreisinger andTsugita andtheircol-
leagues (22)wasthataflataromatic molecule suchasan
acridine, whichintercalated intheDNAbase-pair stack,
couldstabilize ashiftedpairinginarepetitive sequence of
bases.Thisthenled,duringDNAreplication orrepair,toan
addition ordeletion ofbasepairsintheDNAsequence. Our
workledtoanother generalization: thatthepotency ofan
intercalating agentasaframeshift mutagen couldbein-
creasedbyordersofmagnitude iftheringsystemcontained a
sidechainthatcouldcovalently reactwithDNA(4,5,18,
19).Thecarcinogens testedinthisstudysatisfytherequire-
mentofhavinganearlyplanararomatic ringsystem(pre-
sumably capableofastacking interaction withDNA)anda
potentially reactive partofthemolecule. Noneofthecom-
poundstestedherecauseddetectable frameshift mutagenesis
beforetreatment withliverhomogenate, butallofthemwere
mutagenic afterward, aconsequence, webelieve,ofactivation
byliverenzymes.
Although manyofthemorepotentcarcinogens areframe-
shiftmutagens, manycarcinogens, suchassimplealkylating
agents,causebase-pair substitutions. Webelievethepotency
oftheframeshift typeisduetothetwofactorsofactivation
insituandbifunctionality. Theparentcarcinogens presum-
ablyreachspecifictissues(anddissolve inmembranes) in
theirunreactive formandarenotactivated untiltheyare
insidethetargetcell.Asimplealkylating agentcouldbein-
activated byreaction withsulfhydryl groupsorprotein at
thesiteofentry.Aringsystemcapableofastacking inter-
actionwithDNAgivesthemolecule aparticular affinityfor
DNAascompared withasimplealkylating agent.
MillerandMiller(7)haverecently reviewed thefieldof
carcinogen activation anddiscussed theideathatmanycar-
cinogens, amongwhicharemanyofthecarcinogens wehave
examined, needactivation tobecarcinogenic. Theyalsore-
viewtheevidence ofmanyinvestigators thatanumber of
theseactiveformsaremutagenic inonesystem oranother.
Weshowedthatthepureactiveformsofanumberofthese
carcinogens werepotentframeshift mutagens withoutliver.
activation anddiscussed thestructure ofthecarcinogens on
thebasisofframeshift mutagenesis theory(2,4,5).The
presentresultsaddmanycarcinogens tothelistofframeshift
mutagens andshowthattheactiveformscanbegenerated
bymammalian-liver homogenates anddetected asmutagens
withoursetofSalmonella testerstrains.
Itisquitereasonable tousebacteria asatestsystemfor
carcinogen detection, because somanycarcinogens appear to
bemutagens actingonDNAandallDNAisbasically the
same.Wehaveovercome thelimitation oftheinability of
bacteria toduplicate mammalian metabolism byadding
human, orrat,liverhomogenates andaTPNH-generating
systemdirectly tothepetriplateswithourSalmonella tester2284 Genetics: Amesetal.
aremutagens cause cancerbysomaticmutation. Thishy-Proc.Nat.Acad.Sci.USA70(1973)
strainsandthecarcinogen. Indetection ofmutagens causing
pointmutations, abacterial testsystemhasmanypractical
andtheoretical advantages, among which arethesmall
genome (about4X106basepairs),largenumber oforga-
nismsexposed (about109perplate),andthepositive selection
formutated organisms. ThesetofSalmonella testerstrains
(2)hasthreeadditional advantages: lackofexcision repair,
lossofthelipopolysaccharide barrier, andscoringofmuta-
tionsin"hotspots"(23)forframeshift mutagenesis (e.g.,
theCGCGCGCG sequence inTA1538). Scoring ofreversion
inaneasilymutated "hotspot"combined withsmallness
ofthegenome aidthetestbymaximizing reversion relative
tokilling.Oursetoftesterstrainsfordetecting frameshift
mutagens isnotyetcomplete and,thus, anegative resultdoes
notnecessarily meanthatacompound isnotamutagen.
TheSalmonella testsystem candetectcarcinogens with
greatsensitivity. Inanysystemfordetecting mutagens one
scoresmutations inonlyasmallpartofthegenome. Thus,
therevertant colonies weseerepresent only atinyfraction
(10-2-10-4) ofthebacteria mutated. Nevertheless, because
ofthesensitivity ofthetesterstrainsandthepotency ofthe
activated carcinogens asmutagens, onecandetect nanograms
ofcarcinogen: e.g.,0.5Agof2-aminoanthracene gives11,000
revertant colonies, compared tocontrols ofabout30colonies.
Webelievethatthecoupled system, mammalian liver/Sal-
monella testerstrain,shouldbeusedinscreening ofsuspected
carcinogens, inisolation ofcarcinogens fromnatural
materials, andinidentification oftheactiveformsofcarcino-
gens.Thesystemprovides arapid,simple, sensitive, and
economical method fordetecting thosecarcinogens thatcause
pointmutations. Thisclass,thoughitincludes animpressive
arrayofchemical carcinogens andradiations, probably will
notincludeallcarcinogens: e.g.,thosethatcausemutations
indirectly byinhibiting mammalian repair.Human autopsy
andrat-liver homogenates arebotheffective inactivating
carcinogens, andothermammalian tissuescouldbetested as
well.Theliverhomogenates canbestoredat-80°forat
least3monthswithout lossofactivity. Theresultsoftesting
acompound canbescoredin2days,andonlyverysmall
amounts oftestcompound areneeded. Another useofthe
systemcouldbeasanassayfortheabilityofmammalian
tissuestoactivate carcinogens. Inastandard assay, weuse
theequivalent of37mgofwetliver.Forapositive response
withthemostactivecompound, lessthan1mgoflivercould
beused.Thisworkwassupported byA.E.C.GrantAT(04-3)34, P.A.
156.Weareindebted toW.PalmerandK.Hirschfortheautopsy
material, andtoJ.A.andE.C.Miller,G.M.Tomkins, andP.E.
Hartman forstimulating discussion.
1.Ames,B.N.(1971)inChemical Mutagens: Principles and
MethodsfortheirDetection, ed.Hollaender, A.(Plenum Press,
NewYork),Vol.1,pp.267-282.
2.Ames,B.N.,Lee,F.D.&Durston, W.E.(1973)Proc.Nat.
Acad.Sci.USA70,782-786.
3.Ames,B.N.(1972)inMutagenic EffectsofEnvironmental
Contaminants, eds.Sutton,E.&Harris,M.(Academic Press,
NewYork),pp.57-66.
4.Ames,B.N.,Sims,P.&Grover, P.L.(1972)Science176,
47-49.
5.Ames,B.N.,Gurney, E.G.,Miller,J.A.&Bartsch, H.
(1972)Proc.Nat.Acad.Sci.USA69,3128-3132.
6.Garner,R.C.,Miller,E.C.&Miller,J.A.(1972)CancerRes.
32,2058-2066.
7.Miller,E.C.&Miller,J.A.(1971)inChemical Mutagens,
ed.Holliender, A.(Plenum Press,NewYork),Vol.1,pp.
83-119.
8.Grover, P.L.,Hewer,A.&Sims,P.(1972)Biochem. Phar-
macol.21,2713-2726.
9.Magee,P.N.&Farber,E.(1972)Biochem. J.83,114-124.
10.Beije,B.&Hultin,T.(1971)Chem.-Biol. Interactions 3,
321-336.11.Lu,A.Y.H.,Kuntzman, R.,West,S.,Jacobson, M.&Con-
ney,A.H.(1972)J.Biol.Chem.247,1727-1734.
12.Malling, H.V.(1971)Mutation Res.13,425-429.
13.Slater,E.E.,Anderson. M.D.&Rosenkranz, H.S.(1971)
CancerRes.31,970-973.
14.Marshall, W.J.&McLean, A.E.M.(1969)Biochem. Phar-
macol.18,153-157.
15.IARCMonographs ontheEvaluation ofCarcinogenic Riskof
Chemicals toMan(WorldHealthOrganization, Lyon,1972),
Vol.1.
16.Grover, P.L.&Sims,P.(1973)Biochem. Pharmacol. 22,
661-665.
17.Detroy, R.W.,Lillehoj, E.B.&Ciegler, A.(1971)inMi-
crobialToxins,eds.Ciegler,A.,Kadis,S.&Ajl,S.(Academic
Press,NewYork),Vol.VI,pp.146-147.18.Ames,B.N.&Whitfield, Jr.,H.J.(1966)ColdSpringHarbor
Symp.Quant.Biol.31,221-225.
19.Creech, H.J.,Preston, R.K.,Peck,R.M.,O'Connell, A.P.
&Ames,B.N.(1972)J.Med.Chem.15,739-746.
20.Legator, M.S.&Malling, H.V.(1971)inChemicalMIuta-gens,ed.Hollaender, A.(Plenum Press,NewYork),Vol.2,
pp.569-589.21.Ficsor,G.&Muthiani, E.(1971)Mutation Res.12,335-
337.
22.Streisinger, G.,Okada,Y.,Emrich, J.,Newton, J.,Tsugita,
A.,Terzaghi, E.&Inouye, M.(1966)ColdSpringHarbor
Symp.Quant.Biol.31,77-84.
23.Okada,Y.,Streisinger, G.,Owen,J.,Newton, J.,Tsugita,
A.&Inouye,M.(1972)Nature236,338-341.Carcinogens areMutagens 2285